"I've seen your kind, time and time again. Every fleeing man must be caught. Every secret must be unearthed. Such is the conceit of the self-proclaimed seeker of truth. But in the end...you lack the stomach for the agony you'll bring upon yourself." - Sir Wilhelm, Dark Souls 3, Ashes of Ariandel

"Die Siege laden ihn nicht ein;
Sein Wachstum ist: Der Tiefbesiegte
Von immer Größerem zu sein."
^1 https://quoteinvestigator.com/2018/02/20/greater/

"戦わなければ勝てない" - Mikasa

"胸を張って生きろ

己の弱さや不甲斐なさにどれだけ打ちのめされようと

心を燃やせ

歯を食いしばって前を向け" - Rengoku, flame hashira

"I'M READY! HOW 'BOUT YOU?!" Warrant Officer Emile-A239, Callsign Noble 4

```
*speaking to eachother in the afterlife* 
jogo: "hanami, dagon, sorry."
hanami: "mahito is still alive. death is something humans fear and detest. however, humans linger beyond it as well. death is a mirror for humans. mahito is that mirror. mahito will continue to grow stronger. thats why you propped him up as the leader. when we are reborn, we'll no longer be the same as before. even so, ill be anticipating the day we'll meet again."
jogo: "we're the true humans"
sukuna(jogo's killer and living calamity): "so you wanted to become human?*smirk"
jogo: "not becoming human literally. more like taking their place, right"
sukuna: "yeah, yeah... i know wha tyou mean. that said, it makes it all the more foolish. humans flocking together. curses flocking together. comparing themselves to those around them... leads to weakness and stunts their growth. you should have burnt everything you desired to a cinder without thinking. to reach the heights of satoru gojo(the strongest) and not worry about the future or identity. but you lacked the hunger to take hold of your desires."
jogo(downcast): "youre probably right"
sukuna: "but you know... that was actually fun while it lasted(their fight). humans. jujutsu sorcerers. cursed spirits. youre not bad compared to those I fought over the last thousand years. stand proud. you're strong.
jogo(shocked, looks at hand, wondering how sukuna is even here in this interspace): "what is this?!"
sukuna(standing with arrogant devilish grin in the blank afterlife space): "dont ask me"
cut to sukuna looking at jogo's burning bones: "i dont know what that was either"
a shadow casts over his face
```
```
There are a lot of videos on YouTube/TikTok etc. that give the appearance of education, but if you look closely they are really just entertainment. This is very convenient for everyone involved : the people watching enjoy thinking they are learning (but actually they are just having fun).

Learning is not supposed to be fun. The primary feeling should be that of effort. It should look a lot less like that "10 minute full body" workout from your local digital media creator and a lot more like a serious session at the gym. You want the mental equivalent of sweating.

I find it helpful to explicitly declare your intent up front as a sharp, binary variable in your mind. If you are consuming content: are you trying to be entertained or are you trying to learn? And if you are creating content: are you trying to entertain or are you trying to teach? You'll go down a different path in each case. Attempts to seek the stuff in between actually clamp to zero.

So for those who actually want to learn. Unless you are trying to learn something narrow and specific, close those tabs with quick blog posts. Close those tabs of "Learn XYZ in 10 minutes". Consider the opportunity cost of snacking and seek the meal - the textbooks, docs, papers, manuals, longform. Allocate a 4 hour window. Don't just read, take notes, re-read, re-phrase, process, manipulate, learn.

How to become an expert at a thing:

1. Iteratively take on concrete projects and accomplish them depth wise, learning "on demand" (ie don’t learn bottom up breadth wise).
2. Teach/summarize everything you learn in your own words.
3. Only compare yourself to younger you, never to others
- Andrej Karpathy
```


"the greatest advice that will feel like its too simple to work but always works: just one sstep at a time. if you take whatever youre trying to do in life one hour by hour and don't focus on tomorroow.. pretend you have one day to live. when the day is over, it just resets. thats it. the greatest, most successful people in the world? they only live for today. they've got a plan for, you know, three weeks out but.. all their energy goes for one day. and youre going to notice when you put all your energy in one day youre gonna meet certain people who fuck with your energy" Jon Zherka

"take an impossible problem and break it into an infinite list of hard problems. take a hard problem and break it into medium problems. take medium problems and break them into smaller problems. this is modularization" gregor kicszales, UBC CS